# How do mindfulness and compassion programs improve mental health and well-being? The role of attentional processing of emotional information

Objectives: To examine whether: (1) formal training in mindfulness and compassion meditation could modify the distribution of attentional resources towards emotional information; and (2) changes in attentional processing of emotional information after the meditation programs mediate the improvements in psychological distress, emotion regulation, and well-being. 
Methods: A sample of 103 participants enrolled in the study: 36 in the mindfulness program (MBSR), 30 in the compassion program (CCT), and 37 in the control group (CG). The assessment before and after the programs included the completion of an emotional Attentional Blink task (AB) together with self-report measures of psychological distress, emotion regulation, and well-being. 
Results: MBSR and CCT reduced similarly the AB deficit, while no changes were found in the control group. This AB reduction was found for the different emotional stimuli (i.e., negative, positive, and neutral), showing a significant disengagement of first target emotions and significant accessibility of second target emotions to consciousness. The effects of both meditation programs on the psychological measures were mediated by changes in the AB and emotion regulation skills. 
Conclusions: Meditation may promote more flexible and balanced attention to emotional information, which may be a key transdiagnostic mechanism underlying its benefits on emotional distress and wellbeing.
